ah great birthday party the same five
songs on repeat
you stroll off on your own check out the
gifts table and stuff some of those
chocolate cookies into your pocket for
later
you stumble on some nice balloons
floating around and because you have no
self-control
you grab one and start inhaling that
helium
everyone else is outside playing games
pinning the tail on the donkey
and it's awesome the first thing you
notice is your voice changing
we've all done it at least once in our
lifetime your voice gets super high
pitched and squeaky for a couple of
seconds
you gotta keep inhaling through the
balloon though it doesn't last very long
it's a fun party trick and it's all
thanks to helium which is much lighter
than oxygen
because of that helium travels quicker
through your vocal cords
making them vibrate faster the faster
they vibrate the more you sound like
alvin and the chipmunks you lie back in
a comfy chair
ah suddenly you notice that everyone has
that high pitched voice too
everyone's freaking out you breathe in
something's up with the air it feels
different it feels like
the inside of the balloon you were just
playing with
a little bit of helium isn't harmful not
when you're inhaling it through a
balloon with almost no pressure
but a whole atmosphere of helium
your ears start to feel a bit funny and
it sounds like someone's revving a
motorbike inside your head
you need oxygen to balance out the air
pressure inside your ear
and since the atmosphere is now filled
with helium for some reason
your body can't maintain that balance
without that constant level
it feels like you're springing from sea
level up to the summit of everest and
back everyone starts running around
shouting in high squeaky voices
it's pretty entertaining but also kind
of terrifying
you look up in the sky and see a drastic
change
you check your watch and it's still noon
but the sky
is as dark as the night you can still
hear people squeaking
but now you can't see them when the
sun's rays travel to earth
they get reflected and bounce off
different particles in the air
especially oxygen with helium instead of
oxygen
you see much less blue and a whole lot
more black
the sun it suddenly just looks like a
small dot in the sky
and as soon as the sun disappears it
gets hotter
wasn't expecting that you feel like you
just stepped in a sauna you're sweating
all over
just out of instinct you dive under a
tree the sun
feels really strong now oxygen in the
ozone layer usually blocks and deflects
a lot of ultraviolet rays those are the
ones that give you a sweet summer tan
with the oxygen gone those rays are
bearing down on earth
it's like you're a pizza about to get
cooked you try your best to calm down
but things are getting a bit out of
control
and it's a good thing you went outside
just now because that house you were
just in
it's starting to look kind of flimsy
concrete needs oxygen to stay bound
together
without it you're just looking at a pile
of cement sand and water
helium just doesn't cut it you stand up
and look over at the abandoned water
tower
it's crumbling you run off in the
darkness trying to make sense of
everything
but everyone on the street is as
confused as you are
the whole block looks like a total mess
a lot of people abandon their cars to
seek shelter
and there are turned over bikes and
random bags everywhere
people just left everything and ran you
find a car that doesn't seem too damaged
and switch on the ignition
nothing no sound or anything you try
another car
the same thing happens and another what
you need oxygen to start a fire which is
basically what happens when you start
your car
and since helium isn't combustible the
cars just won't start
same goes for starting a plane engine or
a motorbike
the whole world's transportation system
is suddenly useless
but there's always muscle power what
about that bike
now you can escape this nightmare you
find a good one and pick it up
as you pedal along in the dark you can
almost hear the ground
sizzling you need to find help you take
your eyes off the road for just a moment
lose your balance and bump into a
mailbox
you're fine you just brush yourself off
and get back to pedaling
but your bike and the mailbox are now
sort of glued together
this is way too sci-fi get this
solid metals can't stick to each other
because of the
oxygen in the air they need to be melted
down and then mixed together
but no oxygen no problem medals are
sticking together
all over the place you put your watch
near the mailbox
that was a mistake you've got no choice
unbuckle it and leave it behind
all that helium is making you kind of
dizzy just then
you feel the ground shake things are
going to get worse
come on you ignore it and continue
running but it happens again
stronger this time you look behind you
and see the ground
opening up that's definitely your cue to
run you dodge everything in your path
you're usain bolt
you're a cheetah all this is definitely
your fault somehow you just know it
why did you have to inhale that helium
balloon
so basically the earth's crust needs
oxygen to maintain its form
yeah as if things couldn't get any worse
but
facts are facts and the fact is the
earth's crust is made of
almost fifty percent oxygen we're
walking on air
people literally the ground's collapsing
in front of you
the sky's gone black and how are you
even breathing right now there's no
oxygen
zoing out of nowhere appears a flying
electric plastic spaceship
uh just go with me on this one remember
when i said that everything that runs on
fuel needs oxygen
well owning electric vehicles looking
pretty good right about
now plus it's plastic so it won't go
around sticking to mailboxes and stuff
you hop in and your ears immediately
feel more relaxed than before
there's something in the air here oxygen
wow did you hold your breath that whole
time the spaceship takes off and flies
straight up
past the clouds you're high as an
airplane then the spaceship slows
and the engine turns off there's a brief
moment when you feel like time just
stops
then you start falling back to earth
uh-oh
you start gaining speed faster and
faster roller coaster speed
race car speed sonic jet speed
your body shakes as you wake up from
your nap
you open your eyes and look around
everyone staring at you
apparently you just inhaled half the
balloons at the party
they say you were yelling something
about a mailbox
so helium makes you sound wacky when you
inhale it
but what about liquid helium you can't
use it to make ice cream or anything
but it does have a real purpose helium
is used for cooling large machines that
get hot when they're turned on
liquid helium is the coldest liquid in
the world colder than liquid nitrogen
now you're probably going to think twice
about going at those helium balloons
again
but that's actually not the only gas
that'll make your voice funny
sulfur hexafluoride helium is way
lighter than air
but sulfur hexafluoride is way heavier
which means that if you breathe in a
little your voice will go down
real low and you'll have a loud deep
voice for a few seconds
you can also use it to make a sweet tick
tock magic video
step one grab a container and fill it
halfway
with sulfur hexafluoride it's heavier
than air
so you can leave the top off step two
try putting a paper boat into the
container
it'll be like it's floating on thin air
no smoke no mirrors
you can float anything on it as long as
it's light enough
one of those folded paper birds a flower
petal